>> Welcome to our session on Deploying Mobile Access Server.
My name is Steve Cervera.
I am the Solutions Architect Manager
for Apple Education Sales
I am joined by my colleagues Al Begley, John
Murata and Greg Vaughan, Software Engineers
and Principal Architects of Mobile Access Server.
So what we are going to talk about today is what Mobile
Access Server is, what problems it solves and we are going
to get under the hood a bit and look at how it works.
We will talk about some deployment scenarios
and then we are going to give you a brief demo
on how simple it is to configure Mobile Access Server.
I will then take your questions.
So Apple built Mobile Access Server as a way to
provide iPhone users with secure on-the-go access
to company information or, in the
case of education, school information.
Now Mac OS X server has excellent services for Mobile users.
The challenge up to now has been how to provide
secure access to those services across a firewall
without the need to configure a VPN on each client.
So we built Mobile Access Server with this in mind.
We wanted to provide secure access to web
services, iCal server, Address Book Server,
and mail services without the need to touch
any of the clients to configure a VPN on them.
And all communication is secure and securely encrypted
over SSL, and only access to specified servers
and services is granted to authorized users.
So one of the design goals for Mobile Access Server
was to make it simple to configure and administer
and we have done that and you will see that in a bit.
We also wanted to make it easy to connect through.
We didn't want you to have to configure
anything on your device in order
to access resources through Mobile Access Server.
We have implemented a system that allows us to
maintain a common name space, say for a web URL,
whether accessing it from the internal
network or from the external network,
and you will see why that is important in just a bit.
And while we have designed Mobile Access Server
principally for the iPhone, certainly any mobile computer
or the iPod touch can utilize Mobile Access Server as well.
Now Mobile Access Server is built on the
idea of a reverse proxy, a reverse web proxy.
To kind of understand that, let's
review what a forward proxy is.
With a forward proxy, we have our internal network
and our external network and typically we have a host
that receives queries from our internal clients and
then forwards those on to servers out on the internet
and typically we will use this to either optimize
performance by caching web pages on that proxy server
or to use it to control access to the internet.
Now with the reverse proxy, typically this is used today,
if you have a rack say of web servers on the back end
and you want to provide load balancing to those servers,
you place a host in the front end to receive the request
from the clients and then distribute
them among the backend servers.
If you will recall, we introduced the configuration
of reverse proxies in the GUI in Leopard Server
and this was principally done to provide load
balancing for Ruby on Rails and Mongrel applications.
Now we have taken it a step further in Snow Leopard to
provide secure access through the Mobile Access Server.
Now there are three common implementation
schemes for implementing reverse proxies.
The next couple of slides I am
going to go over some of those
and it will help you understand why
we chose the scheme that we did.
Now let's just define some terminology.
Obviously, we know what a client is
and I will be referring to the client
as an iPhone or iPod touch or a laptop computer.
We have discussed the proxy server and I
want to introduce the term origin server.
The origin server is the server that the clients connect
to and that is the origination source of the services,
whether it is mail, iCalendar server, or web services.
So with that in mind, let's take a look at some
common schemes for implementing reverse proxy.
In this diagram, we have got our
internal network and our external network.
We have got an origin server named wiki.example.com.
We have our Wiki proxy; this is our reverse proxy
that spans the internal and the external network.
Our client is going to address the Wiki proxy, the
reverse proxy in this case, wikiproxy.example.com.
That reverse proxy then forwards
the request onto the origin server.
And one of the challenges here is
when we are accessing that Wiki server
from the internal network we are addressing
it directly using wiki.example.com,
but when we move to the external network, we now
need to address it with wikiproxy.example.com.
So the problem that exists is, we have disparate
name spaces, so any links that we create
from the internal network no longer
work when we are on the outside network.
Now what if we want to use this reverse proxy to proxy not
just one server, but many servers, well there is another way
to implement reverse proxy that allows us to do that
and we do that by modifying the path to the, in the URL.
So here in this case, we are going to be addressing
wikiproxy.example.com/ and then the name of the host,
the origin server that we want to access.
In this case, it is Wiki and of course if we had
an iCalendar server named foo it would be /foo.
So this method gives us or presents the same
challenge in that we have a disparate name space,
so again any links created on the internal
network no longer work from the external network.
So we have chosen to implement a reverse proxy that
depends on split DNS to accomplish a constant host name
and constant path, so in this example, we have
again our Wiki server on the internal network.
We now have a Mobile Access Server, this is our
reverse proxy server, again spanning the network,
and here our internal DNS, I'm sorry, our ISP's
DNS is configured to resolve wiki.example.com
to the IP address of our Mobile Access Server.
The Mobile Access Server then passes that
request onto the internal origin server.
Now the benefit here is when we are on the internal network,
we are going to be querying our internal DNS server.
The internal DNS server resolves wiki.example.com
to the IP address of the origin server;
we are completely bypassing Mobile
Access Server at this point.
We don't need Mobile Access Server.
We have direct access to the origin server and so we make
bookmarks here and then we go home or out of the network.
Now our client is going to query our ISP's DNS server,
which resolves wiki.example.com to the Mobile Access Server,
which grants access to the origin server.
Now here the bookmarks we created on
the internal network work just fine
from the internet and our web apps work just fine too.
So to review, split DNS is a key
to deploying Mobile Access Server.
Here we have the Mobile Access Server multi-homed in the
DMZ, the demilitarized zone or the border zone, and the,
our internal DNS server is configured to resolve
the host name of the origin server to the IP address
of the origin server, but our external DNS server, our
ISP's DNS server is configured to resolve the host name
of the origin server to the IP address of
the Mobile Access Server, which then goes on
and passes that request onto the origin server.
So to give you an idea, from the external network,
external DNS is configured to resolve wiki.example.com
to say 63.x.y.z. But our internal DNS is configured
to resolve the origin server to the interface
of the origin server, so bypassing Mobile Access entirely.
As with any server placed in the DMZ,
it is important to protect that server
with tight firewall rules and the use of certificates.
So with regard to certificates, it is
important to use CA-issued certificates.
Why? You can use self-signed certificates,
they will work, they will function,
but your users will receive this warning indicating that
the certificate presented by the server is invalid and if,
as a matter of business practice you are using
self-signed certificates and you are training your users
to accept this warning, then you are training them to
ignore a very important warning that could protect them
from a rogue server, so it is important
to use CA- issued certificates.
Now in the event that you really need to use a self-signed
certificate, you can make this error go away simply
by copying the root certificate to each of the
devices that will be accessing Mobile Access Server.
Of course, now you have to touch each
device and that kind of defeats the point
of Mobile Access Server in the first place.
So we think it is a good investment to purchase
the CA- issued certificate for this application.
Now it is also important to tighten up your
firewall rules to make sure that any host access
in the Mobile Access Server from the external network is
only able to get to the server through the ports necessary
to access the services from the origin server.
And similarly on the inside interface, it is important
to create rules that allow that Mobile Access Server
to only access the directory services and the
origin servers that it is serving proxy for.
Security is obviously very important for this server
and so, in this role, so all data is encrypted over SSL
from the client to the proxy and only access, access is only
granted to the Mobile Access Server for authenticated users.
Users must be authenticated either against Open Directory
or active directory and we have a mechanism built
in called Auth throttle back that will incur a decreasing
delay on repeated failed attempts to authenticate
and so that helps to thwart brute force attacks.
Now once a user is authenticated,
the user must also be authorized.
So we have a whitelist authorization system and you
see a screenshot here that shows the default setting is
that all authenticated users are allowed to
access web mail, iCal and Address Book Servers.
But obviously, you are probably going to want to tighten
that up a bit and grant access only to the users,
individual users, or groups of users for
the specific servers that they require.
So you see in this example here, the students
group has access only to web services.
Whereas our remote workers group has access to all of the
services available in Mobile Access Server and obviously,
we can provide John and Al with
the services they require as well.
Now access through the Mobile Access Server varies a bit
depending on the service and the protocol being used,
so let's start off with the way, talking about the access
through Mobile Access Server for web and Wiki services.
Here we have created a customization and a
patchy plugin called mod_auth_session_apple
that provides access only to the web server.
What it does is provide a login user interface
to allow the user after making a request
for an internal server, to log in with their credentials?
Now upon a failed authentication, the user
will be redirected to an access denied URL
and then there is a Try Again button that
will allow them to try and authenticate again,
so maybe they fat-fingered their password.
And if they are trying to hack the system, they will run
into this brick wall here with Auth throttle back and,
upon repeated failed attempts, will create
an increasing delay between the time
that the login user interface is presented to them again.
And so once we authenticate, then the user is
automatically redirected to the URL they they've requested.
Now we don't want to have to make the user log into
Mobile Access User for every server they want to access
and so there is an option here to keep me logged in,
in which case a session cookie is
created that has a 14-day expiration.
So in that time period, they will no longer have
to authenticate against the Mobile Access Server.
Let's take a look at how this works with web services.
Here we have on our internal network, our origin server,
wiki.example.com serving up some Snow Leopard Wiki pages
and spanning the internal and external
network is our Mobile Access Server.
Our external DNS, the ISP's DNS is resolving that host
name to the IP address of the Mobile Access Server.
Now our client here is making a request over HTTP.
The Mobile Access Server will immediately redirect
this to HTTPS an encrypted communication over SSL.
So the request comes in now with SSL and the Mobile Access
Server will then authenticate the server and check the user
against the whitelist, assuming the user is both
authenticated and authorized through the whitelist,
the request is passed on to the Wiki server and
the information is passed back to the client.
Now let's take a look at a case where the user
is authenticated, but not on the whitelist.
Well that is a red condition.
Also if the user is not authenticated
obviously and not on the whitelist,
access through the Mobile Access Server will be denied
and the user will not get any further,
so that is an important feature.
Now let's take a look at the user experience from an iPhone.
Now here we are entering the URL for the server
we are trying to access wiki.example.com.
Notice we are accessing this through HTTP that
will then get redirected automatically to HTTPS.
But this is an important concept here, because remember we
want our users to be able to access this server regardless
of whether they are on the internal
network or on the external network.
And this is why split DNS is so important
in implementing Mobile Access Server
to enable us to maintain that single name space.
So when we click Go, we are then brought
automatically to this login user interface.
This is a construct of Mobile Access Server.
Mobile Access Server is saying okay, to go any further,
you need to be authenticated, so you enter your credentials
and we also, you see the option to keep me logged in.
Again, that will create a session cookie that will
last for 14 days and we click the Log In button.
Uh oh, this user is not authenticated, this
is the access denied URL that they receive.
So we fat-fingered that, we got it right this time.
We are then brought to this URL, which indicates that
the user has been authenticated, has been authorized
and we will automatically be redirected
to the URL that we requested.
In this case, it is a Snow Leopard Wiki, so remember I said
that we have this option to keep me logged in for 14 days.
Well what happens if for some reason in that 14-day period,
we need to take access away from that particular user.
So what do we do?
Well quite simply, we can remove that user from
the whitelist, either their account or the group
that they are a member of or take
them out of the group membership.
In any case, if they are not on the whitelist, at any point,
we are constantly examining the HTTP authorization headers
to extract the username and compare to this whitelist.
If they are not on the whitelist, they will receive this
URL so access will be denied at the Mobile Access Server.
So most applications should work just fine
through the web proxy and Mobile Access Server.
There are a couple things to keep in mind.
Some applications will require the
IP address of the requesting client.
And because we are proxying here and we need
the address of the original requesting client,
you need to get that information
from the X-Forwarded-For header.
Also, you should try to make your
links relative wherever possible.
Consider the fact then when we are on the internal network,
we are going to be in most cases accessing our web servers
over HTTP, but when we access those same web servers
from the external network, what is going to happen?
It is going to automatically be redirected to HTTPS.
So if you make your links absolute, then
you are going to have a broken link.
Also, remember that you can only access other servers
that are proxied as well and so any links that you make
in an application or a website need to link to other
proxied applications or other proxied web servers rather
or to public hosts, obviously then we
are bypassing our own network entirely.
Now if your application is or your website
is using some kind of authentication,
you need to use basic digest or
session cookie authentication.
Remember we are examining those
authorization headers and as a result,
we can't use Kerberos in that type of an implementation.
Now in server admin for web services, in an effort to keep
the user interface simple, we use name based virtual hosts.
As a result, that requires all virtual hosts, in this
case proxy virtual hosts to listen in on all IP addresses,
but because we are using SSL, we run into
the host header versus SSL certificate issue.
You see the host header provides the information about
which virtual host should respond to the request,
but we can't examine the host header to determine who the
virtual host is until we use the correct certificate to do
that and if each virtual host is
using a different certificate,
Apache has no idea which virtual host should respond.
So there are a couple of ways around that, the
first one is to use a wild card certificate.
Now we are using one certificate for all the web, the
virtual hosts in your domain and so Apache then needs
to take the request, apply the single wild card certificate
to decrypt and then to determine who the host header is,
I'm sorry or the virtual host is that needs to respond.
Another solution is just to make your proxy
virtual host be port specific to help identify
which virtual host should respond and finally it is
possible to manually configure the virtual host config file,
we don't recommend this, because it
is possible that any changes made here
in the config file would be overwritten
by any changes made to the GUI.
So let's take a look now at iCal
server and address book server
and take a look at the access mechanisms employed there.
They are similar because they are also utilizing the
HTTP protocol and but here we don't have an option
to present a log in interface to the user as we do with
access through a web browser, so we have a different plug-in
that we have created called mod_auth_user_host_apple.
This does authorization only.
Here we are relying on the iCal Server and the
Address Book Server to do the authentication
and here again we are extracting the username from the
HTTP authorization headers to compare that to the whitelist
and so here again basic and digest authentication
should be configured and not Kerberos.
So once we extract that username,
we check it against the whitelist
and then determine whether this user
has access for the requested service.
Let's take a look at how this list works.
Here now our origin server is an iCal Server, our Mobile
Access Server again spans the external and internal network
and our client is going to connect with
CalDAV over HTTPS, unlike with web services,
the Mobile Access Server doesn't redirect
an HTTP request back over to HTTPS.
So it is important to know that your users on their
device need to configure their iCal client to use SSL.
So once the connection is made, the request is passed
on to the iCal Server, the user is authenticated
and the reply is sent again through the Mobile Access Server
and the whitelist checked, the user is on the whitelist,
the information is passed on to the client and of course
if the user is authenticated, but not on the whitelist,
then access is denied and the information never
gets back out through the Mobile Access Server.
Alright let's take a look now at mail services,
we are using IMAP and SMTP protocols here
and the Mobile Access Server acts as a mail proxy in
this situation proxying IMAP commands and SMTP commands.
Now we have only tested this with Apple's mail server, but
there is nothing that we are doing to prevent anybody's IMAP
or SMTP server from working, it
is just not a test case for us.
So in this particular implementation, the Mobile Access
Server both authenticates and authorizes the users
at the proxy before they can access the mail server.
Let's take a look at how that works.
So with a mail proxy, the Mobile Access
Server is acting both as a mail client,
a proxy mail client to the origin server on
the internal network and as a proxy mail server
to our physical client on the external network.
And the way this works out is we have our
origin server, in this case our mail server.
We have got our Mobile Access Server.
Notice here the origin server is mail.example.com
for mail services we have mail.proxy.example.com
so we are not using the same name space in this particular
case and I will talk more about that in a moment.
So our client makes a request for
an IMAP connection, again over SSL,
no redirection here, just needs to use SSL or it won't work.
The Mobile Access Server then authenticates the user, if the
user authentication fails, obviously they are denied access
and if the user is authenticated, but not on the
whitelist, they will be denied access as well
Of course, if the user is both authenticated
and on the whitelist, the client,
the request is passed on to the origin server and
the mail is retrieved to the requesting client.
We spoke about the importance of split DNS to maintain
this common name space, where when our client is
on the internal network, they will be querying the internal
DNS server and will be accessing directly the origin server,
the internal DNS server resolves the IP address directly to
the origin server and when we move to the external network,
the ISP's DNS server is going to
resolve that origin server host name
to the Mobile Access Server, well
with mail we can't do that.
The mail protocol does not support this type of redirection
and so here, you are going to point your mobile clients
to the Mobile Access Server as their mail server.
Okay, so clients then whether they are on the internal
network or the external network will be pointing
to in this case, it is mailproxy.example.com and the
Mobile Access Server will of course forward that request
on to the origin server as the mail proxy.
Now we have given you a look under the
hood and maybe you are saying geez,
this doesn't look so simple, Steve said it was simple.
It really is simple and I am going to have John
Murata come up and demonstrate to you how simple it is
to configure and administer Mobile Access Server.
>> So, I want to show you how easy it
is to configure a Mobile Access Server.
I am going to launch my Mac OS X Server admin app.
It is going to come up and it is going to show a
Mac OS Server that I have running on a private LAN,
the server is fully qualified domain name
inside my LAN is myserver.example.com
and as you can see I have an open
directory service, my Address Book, iCal,
mail and web services all running on this server here.
Now I want to make the Wiki web service that
I have on my LAN available to my iPhone,
so let me show you how in Snow Leopard, we have made it
easy to add secure Mobile Access to a private network.
So first, I am going to add an OS X Server to my
network and this is going to run my Mobile Access proxy
and I can do this right here in my server admin app,
using its ability to configure multiple OS X servers.
So here is my proxy server and my proxy server is available
through my ISP's DNS as myserver.example.com and this is
of course the same name as what I am using internally and my
server, because it is on the internet is running a firewall
and my firewall is configured to allow access
to those services that I am going to be using.
So let's go ahead and add my Mobile Access
Service to this proxy machine, there it is.
Mobile Access uses SSL, so that means
I need my CA-issued certificates.
I have already imported into server admin the certificates
that I will be using, so now I am ready to add Web Access,
and I'll do that here in my Mobile Access Settings.
I type in the name of my internal server.
[ Typing ]
And that's it.
[ Inaudible ]
Thank you.
All right, that leads me to the
next dialog, the Edit Dialog.
So, as you can see here, if I want
to check my incoming connections,
I can do that here in the Edit Dialog and fix my host name.
And all of my URLs are going to be redirected to my incoming
port, 443, and it's going to do it over HTTPS using SSL.
And so, this is going to happen automatically,
whether I'm inside or outside of my LAN,
on the private LAN or on the public internet.
And that's it.
If I need to add another server, I can do that right here.
Also, only these servers that I add in the
interface you see here are going to be accessible
from the public internet through the Mobile Access proxy.
Now, I'd like to also have access to
my private mail server from my iPhone,
so I'm going to add my mail server
on this particular internal server.
And, in this case, I want to have my DNS name be something
unique, mail.example.com, something so that I can access it
through my ISP's DNS and since I'm changing the DNS
name, I'm going to need a certificate that matches.
If I happen to have a wild card certificate, then I
can go ahead and use that for all my domain names.
There, I've secured mail and web access to
my internal network, and let's go ahead now,
and authorize some users to access this server
I'm going to click on my Access Panel.
Right now, it's allowing all authenticated users
access to the two services that I've set up.
I can restrict my access to just
those users I'm going to specify.
I have an open-directory server running,
so I should have access to all of my users.
And I'm going to ad Al and myself.
[ Typing ]
Not quite that smart.
So there are a lot of other users who want access, so
since this is an open directory, I can just go ahead
and add a couple of groups to handle
the rest of the users who need access.
Then you save, start Mobile Access, the light is green,
and that is configuring the new
Mobile Access Server on OS X Server.
>> I just want to summarize here, the ability for Mobile
Access Server just to provide secure and simple access
to your web mail, iCal and Address Book Servers,
without the need to configure any clients.
Also, the administration is simple.
A key message here is the correct
implementation of split DNS is the key
to success here, with implementing Mobile Access Server.
Here's where you can go for some more information.